TEKsystems – Sample Questions – Rakuten FE
Introduction 
Performance improvement - what did you implement and how did you improve the performance?
// How big was the project?
How do you measure the system performance?
Lazy roading? - Can you give me an example of when you use?
// How big was the data size and page size? 
Why did you implement lazy loading? What was the background?
What will be the negative part of using custom hooks?
How do you usually manage code quality usually?
Have you suggested any new technology or strategy in your past experience?
How do you mentor other team members?
How do you detect a frontend issue?
Why do you want to come to Japan?
Career plan?
What was the Feedback you received in the past?
Have you thought about what will be challenging working in Japan?
Can you share the details of the application?
Do you use Figma for this project?
Why do you use CSS?
Can you use a function for CSS?
Could you tell me the team structure?
How did you optimize the time?
What was the advantage of finding a code base and functional components?
How do you handle the component in your project?
How do you --- in the new Project? Convert the old one to new one.
Where do you use paginations?
Where do you use suspense?
// In terms of the dashboard, before you implemented, what took time, what was the bottleneck?
// What was the data source?
// Financial dashboard, could you tell me the whole picture? 
// Why didn’t you implement pagination?
// How does your page render the user?
// What is the first request?
Do you have any experience in server-side rendering?
Could you tell me the weakness in client-side rendering?
If you got new application, how do you proceed?
What should be rendered in client side and client side?
What type of testing have you implemented?
How do you set up redux?
Why this time you decided to take the opportunity in Japan?
Do you have any experience mentoring the junior?
Do you have any experience with leading the project?
For troubleshooting, how do you handle it?
Do you have any experience with monitoring systems?
What is the trouble handling flow?
How long does it take to resolve the incident?
How do you learn new technology?
What's the difference between React and redux?  
// Which library did you use for server-side rendering? 
Performance tuning experience? 
Experiences with functional components and class components? 
React virtual DOM?  
System design experience from scratch ?
