M: This is how to answer the most common behavioral interview questions for software engineers or basically what are the most common non-technical interview questions that you can expect. While most of your interviews are going to be focused on coding and some of the more technical parts of the role, you definitely need to practice these questions because if you fail this non-technical interview, you are not going to get hired, especially at the top tech company.
M: And the first really common interview question that you will almost always get is: tell me about a time you had a conflict with a teammate and how you resolved it. And the most common mistake that people make is choosing to talk about a problem that resulted from a mistake that they had made. And you don't want to do that because you'd be pointing out to the interviewer that you are not a good candidate. You also don't want to rant too long or be too mean about your teammate who made a mistake that caused this conflict either.
M: Now, when you are practicing giving this answer, make sure you're utilizing the STAR method. I've got a whole video right here if you don't know what that means. But the other thing you need to be aware of is that when you're talking about the result or the ending of your story, we already know that it's a conflict that you resolved. So don't stop the story there.
M: You're going to want to add something else on top of that. For example, you could talk about how this conflict or this mistake that your teammate had made, that you had caught, actually turned into a new feature request that you had spearheaded. This new feature would never have been identified if you had not resolved this conflict. Now, if you are finding this video to be helpful so far, make sure you click subscribe down below or share this with a friend who would find it helpful.
M: All right. The second really common behavioral question is: tell me about a time where you demonstrated leadership. Now, when you're answering this question, the first part needs to explain what you believe leadership to be. And leadership is different than management. So first explain to them how you define leadership and then give them an example at work that talks about that.
M: Do not talk about a project from school unless you absolutely have to and there's nothing else you can bring up. For this answer, of course, you're going to use the STAR method again. And when you're talking about leadership, make sure it doesn't sound like you're bossing people around, because that's not what they want.
M: For them, leadership in these technical software engineering roles talks about leading a project or taking the initiative to solve a problem that no one in the team wanted to step up and do. Leadership could also mean helping a fellow engineer who was struggling on parts of the project and helping them finish their portion.
M: Now, as a pro tip here, you're going to want to do some additional research on the company's value and mission statement. And you're going to want to make sure that your leadership principles or how you define and demonstrate leadership matches up with the company's values.
M: Now, the next non-technical interview question to practice is: imagine that your teammate was not performing well. How would you handle the situation? Do not use the STAR method because this is an imaginary hypothetical scenario. When you're trying to explain how you would deliver or give bad news to a teammate, you're going to want to make sure that it's constructive and you're not going to want to put anybody down.
M: You can maybe even talk about the sandwich method, where you give a compliment followed by some criticism followed by the compliment. The most important part of this answer is making sure you don't come across as condescending or too arrogant. You're also going to want to show empathy because you know that everybody makes mistakes. And another really key part of your answer is talking about how you would also ask and look out for feedback as well.
M: Oh, and make sure you're thinking about the broader picture for the company or the product or the team as a whole. Usually if someone is underperforming, it's not because they don't know what they're doing or they're not technically qualified. There's usually an underlying root cause, which is what you're going to want to uncover as a part of your answer.
M: Okay, the next behavioral interview question is: what would your manager say about you? This is a tricky question because it's actually a disguised version of: what are your strengths and weaknesses? They're going to basically want you to share something that your manager would say that is good about you and something that is bad about you or an area that you need to improve on.
M: And when you talk about things that you are good at, make sure you're talking about things that are technical and related to the role and make sure you give a very brief example that demonstrates and proves that you are actually good at this. The same thing goes for your weakness. For your weakness, make sure you give an example of how you're working to improve on it.
M: But most importantly, when you talk about an area of improvement for yourself that your manager would say, do not say something that is super critical to the job or do not say something that is going to make you look really bad. You should pick something that's honest but not important to the job, like public speaking.
M: The next question you need to practice is: why are you looking to switch? Even if you didn't apply for this job and a recruiter found you on LinkedIn, that should not be your answer. They are basically asking, why do you want to work here? This is not the time to air out your dirty laundry or to rant about how you hate your current manager or your current job, or that you want to get a promotion or a pay raise.
M: This is your opportunity to show them that you are really excited about the company and the product itself. Your excitement is going to be the most important part of the answer. They want to feel your energy and know that you're genuinely excited to come and work there.
M: Also, you don't want to make it sound like you're running away from something because it'll take away your leverage and your negotiating power later on. So basically, you're going to want to talk about why your company is so exciting to you, why you are so personally connected to the company's mission or the product, and why you're excited about there.
M: And then you need to talk about how you can help them and add value based on your current specific skill set.
M: The next behavioral question to practice is: tell me about a time you went above the call of duty. This question starts with "tell me about a time," so you're going to use the STAR method here.
M: But when you're giving an example, make sure it's something that is really unique and makes you seem like a great employee or a really good teammate. You should not pick an example that's purely based around working long hours or working extra hard.
M: So many times I hear software engineers give me examples about how they stayed late on a Friday or how they had to work over a weekend or how they pulled an all-nighter to finish a feature. These are not things that will make you stand out.
M: The way to look at this question is: what is something so amazing and unique that only you have done that makes me want to hire you over everybody else?
M: Try to highlight something technical that you have done or some new feature or some bug that you had solved. Don't focus on soft skills.
M: All right, so now you know some of the most common behavioral questions that you're going to get when you're applying for software engineering jobs. For those of you who have passed these non-technical interviews, go ahead and put what questions you've gotten down in the comments below so we can help the whole community.
M: Thank you all for watching and don't be afraid to shake things up.